##**A Review of Prism**  
###**by Sarah Specht**
  
  Imagine a glass prism. When you put white light through a prism, it separates the colors of the rainbow from one another, casting them off into separate rays. If you were able to put all these separate color rays back through the prism, you would get white light. Similar to the dual nature of a physical prism, the digital project known as “Prism” is a two-way street. The project, as explained on the “About” page of the site, was inspired by a practice teachers would use to facilitate social interpretation of literature in a time before computers populated the schoolhouses: teachers would make copies of a poem on an overhead transparency, and give them to small groups to annotate. After a time, the transparencies were collected and stacked on top of each other and analyzed in large group discussion. This practice imitates the prism’s characteristics in the sense that it takes something (a poem) and sends it out not only in different directions, but in different manifestations. Just as the white light enters a prism going straight through and exits emerging in one direction as the color red, a transparency copy of the poem is given to a group of students who will mark it up and change it from its original state. The goal of this first process is to understand. Then the second part of the process occurs: the separate manifestations (the individual interpretations of the poem) combine through the prism once again to produce white light (a group interpretation). The goal of this second process is to create. Even though this educational exercise inspired this project, the creators of prism did not simply set out to recreate this exercise in a digital format. Rather, they recognized the other applications the model of a prism had to teach us about analyzing poetry and used their project to address some common problems within the English/Language Arts discipline.   
  
  My older brother once told me about an experience he had in high school. He was an admittedly unmotivated student, but something he really loved was poetry. He loved that people could see the same thing in so many different ways. One day he read a poem in his English class, and was really interested in it. He had a lot of points he wanted to bring up, and he was actually ready and willing to participate in class. When it was his turn to talk, he expressed his view excitedly, but the teacher shut him down, saying that there was no way his interpretation could be correct, and proceeded to explain her own point of view as fact. Students of all ages have likely felt similar discouragement. It can come from ‘know-it-all’ students to whom poetry interpretation comes easy. It can also come from those with higher education, who constantly undervalue the insight of children and young adults. Prism aims to equalize scholars and students in the realm of social interpretation.    
  
  To spotlight one way in which the project performs such equalization, I would like to point out a way that the creators deviated from the exercise which initially inspired the project. Instead of allowing all modes of annotation, such as commenting and stamping icons in the margins of the poem, as I have seen similar educational tools do, users can only highlight, and even that is limited to pre-ordained categories which transfer to colors. This keeps the focus on the text, letting the text speak for itself when users encounter it, instead of other users speaking for it and influencing the interpretation of other users. If users were allowed to write comments on the poems, scholars might overwhelm younger or less educated users with their academic jargon, effectively marginalizing them from the community of analysts. Users of all ages and backgrounds can highlight and categorize poems, and this provides an excellent introduction to literary analysis.    
  
  The creators of the page wrote in their “About” page that they “envision Prism as a tool for both pedagogical use and scholarly exploration”. Part of the vision for the project is that scholars and students will be working together to interpret these poems. Each user equally contributes to the collective interpretation of the poem, as shown by the font size visualization tool, and the split interpretation, where percentages are shown of who recognizes each word to help each category. This is another reason why the lack of a comment section and the anonymity of users is useful: there is nowhere for anyone to argue or say that a word only says something about time and nothing about beauty, for example. Prism recognizes each interpretation as valuable. That’s not to say that civilized debate doesn’t have a place in academic discourse and especially in literary analysis, but the creators of this page, for the sake of building a community of all ages and backgrounds, are steering the users away from thinking in terms of right and wrong when it comes to evaluating an interpretation.  
  
  There are some features of this project that are not conducive to this vision. For example, there is no easy way to access a specific poem. There is no search bar for the site, and the works are arranged by when they were added to the site, not alphabetically. This hinders the message that scholars and young students are equals because if one cannot find a poem easily except by being personally invited to it, one ends up with a cliquey community, where Mrs. So-and-So’s sixth grade class works on their poem that the teacher uploaded, and the academics of The College of Wooster work on another poem. There are likely multiple copies of the same poem hiding amongst the 675 pages for browsing, where multiple classes could have contributed to the interpretation of a poem, but instead their community was limited to the physical confines of their own classroom. This is a wasted opportunity to use the unlimited communication of the virtual realm.   
    
  While the project does give power to the individual through the font size visualization tool, the lack of a comment section, and the anonymity of users, it does suggest the power of majority and quantitative data. For example, if three people highlight a word green and one person highlights the word red, the word will appear green in the visualization. If two people highlight the word green and two people highlight the word red, the word will appear black to represent the even split of opinion. If no one highlights the word, the word appears gray (interestingly it does not appear white) to keep your focus on the colors, but so that it is still visible. Whether this system is beneficial is arguable, and I do not have a conclusive opinion on it. The creators of the site have been very open about the process involved in this site, giving open access to the code and providing contact information by which one can report bugs and give feedback. Therefore, it is possible that in the future the complaints I have can be addressed. 
    
  Perhaps it is a little risky to make interpreting poetry social but impersonal, but when interpreting poetry become so personal as to make analyzing one’s argument a personal attack, as young students and adult scholars alike are known to do, this becomes a necessary tool. Besides, I don’t think the creators intended their site to be the end of the discussion of poetry, or a substitute for other forms of dialogue concerning poetry. Rather, I think this site reminds us of the value of each person’s perspective and the joy of simultaneously learning about a poem and one’s companions through social interpretation. In the exercise that inspired Prism, the process wasn’t finished after the transparencies were collected and stacked on top of each other. The results were used to inspire further discussion, and I think that’s what the creators of Prism intend their project to do as well. Maybe they intended even more: to inspire those who have used Prism to understand literature to then use that understanding to branch out and create themselves. The fact that you can upload any text into the site seems to support this idea because such a feature opens up a multitude of possibilities. One can upload one’s own original poem or song if so desired, to be engaged by peers for revision or analysis. As a future educator, I appreciate the message that is being sent about the value of every human’s opinion and the communal aspect of the field I love.   

